---
title: OSCP Week 2 and 3 Update  
date: 020-07-27T13:57:22.000Z
categories: [security]
tags: [certification,oscp]
---

Hi all! Sorry for the slightly delayed blog post. I had meant to write one last\nweek on my second week of OSCP time, but just didn't get around to it. Now, at\nthe end of my third week, I thought it was a good time for a combined update on\nthe past two weeks.\n\nI've slowly but surely been picking up speed, and have completed chapters 4 to\n11 of the PWK material. These chapters covered topics such as: active info\ngathering, vulnerability scanning, buffer overflows in Windows and Linux,\nworking with public exploits, transferring files, and basic privilege\nescalation.\n\nThis amounted to a fair amount of content, so I'll only give a brief overview of\nhow I found the chapters, and then any specific take ways that I've learnt over\nthe past two weeks.\n\nActive information gathering covered some new tools which I had not come across\nbefore, such as dnsrecon, This tools allows you to attempt DNS zone transfers on\ndomains in an automated fashion and with a nice pretty output. Much of the rest\nof this section covered nmap, including the likes of ping sweeps with -sn, TCP\nconnect scans -sT, script scans -sC, different output formats, and specifying\nspecific ports. I was already familiar with nmap but had not tried it out this\nextensively in the past. I also learnt how much more bandwidth and time is used\nby the different scan option, and by scanning all ports compared to only a few.\nThis was emphasised in the notes specially.\n\nSMB scanning was covered in more depth with tools such as nbtscan and enum4linux\nbeing introduced, and compared to the smb scripts available in nmap. Newer\nversions of Windows and Samba have specifically locked down old vulnerabilities\nand the amount of information you can gather prior to authentication.\n\nBasic SMTP scanning and info gathering was also explained, using VRFY and ...\n\nSNMP was briefly introduced and the onesixtyone tool was introduced which makes\ngathering information from SMTP more useful. Other tools such as snmp-walk and\nsnmp-check were introduced as well as some useful strings to check for details.\n\nThree chapters are then dedicated to buffer overflows. From the basics, to\nWindows and Linux. I really enjoyed this content. I've done basic buffer\noverflows tutorials before, but none of them were as good as the ones presented\nhere. One note, the videos are fairly inconsistent with the PDF material at some\npoints. Don't try and follow along with the videos unless you like getting\nfrustrated and wasting some time.. 😓\n\nNext working with public exploits discussed and two exploits which performed the\nsame function as the ones that we wrote earlier were covered. These were in C,\nand it was up to the reader to update these scripts in order to get them to work\nin our environment. I found this a fun exercise as it leveraged on most of the\nwork done in the other buffer overflow chapters, and improved my familiarity\nwith C.\n\nFile transfers using various methods, mostly for Windows (which is fairly\nconstrained by default) was then covered. Copying files onto a Windows system\nvia a limited shell, using methods such as tftp, ftp, vbscript, powershell, and\ndebug.exe. I found these useful, and look notes on the code and commands\nrequired in order to use these in the future.\n\nFinally, basic post exploitation was covered by way of privilege escalation\nmainly using insecure Windows services and Linux permissions. I learnt about\npyinstaller which is a python module capable of turning a python script into an\nexecutable file. This is useful when you have a Python exploit for a Windows\nsystem. Python is not normally installed which is why an executable file is much\nmore useful. Basics of Windows services was also discussed, and the icacls tool\nintroduced to display the permissions on a windows file.